Welcome to my code editor.
This is our playbook that we're seeing right here.
We can see in the folder structure,
it's at the root, it's called main.yml.
It's really simple, it only has a few lines of code.
At the very top, we have hosts.
I'll tell you in just a moment what that web refers to,
but we're basically saying,
perform this Ansible playbook on all machines that are designated web.
Also, our user is root user of the machine that we want to use.
So ec2-user is what we're using for our Amazon Linux instance.
Become actually helps us to escalate privileges like pseudo.
Then roles is a list of these encapsulated,
more maintainable chunks of code that are in another place.
So pay attention, here I've got web.
Let's take a look at inventory.
You remember before I created
an inventory file or I added my host name to an inventory file.
We have here, this is typical INI format.
We have here a heading for web.
That means that every host name or IP address that comes
below this heading is going to be grouped into the web groups.
If I have multiple host names or IP addresses here,
it will actually run this Ansible playbook against all of them simultaneously.
Also back in the playbook,
you remember that I have a role here, it's called Prometheus.
This word corresponds with a name of a folder.
This is convention over configuration.
We have a name of a folder that corresponds with the name of the role.
If I go into that folder,
I have two folders inside of that,
I've got files and I've got tasks.
My files has a Prometheus service and a Prometheus configuration yml file,
which will get copied in to the server later on.
Here's the actual guts of this role.
Everything that's inside of the tasks,
main.yml is the role of Prometheus.
We can see here that it's updating the yum repository.
It is adding a user or downloading a file, or extracting something.
We're moving files around,
we are going to move some more files around.
We're preparing a database directory.
The list goes on and on.
All of these things are things that you would have to do manually,
but the Ansible playbook is going to run them for us.
At the very end,
it's going to restart the Prometheus service so that
it actually will run when the system is rebooted.
That's the basic anatomy of a playbook with roles.
You're also probably noticing in my code that we're not
just calling shell scripts and executing bash commands.
While it is possible just to use a bunch of shell commands to get the job done,
Ansible offers these things called
modules that provide more maintainable, cleaner shortcuts.
Things like apt and mpm for installing packages,
git for pushing and pulling,
copy and unarchive to deal with files,
and systemd for stopping and starting services.
I included a list of several that I think are useful,
down below the video.
There's also a link to see the complete list.